One 
moment 
Shadow 
was 
riding 
the 
World’s 
Largest Carousel, holding on to his eagle-headed tiger,
and then the red and white lights of the carousel stretched and shivered and went out, and he was
falling through an ocean of stars, while the mechanical waltz was replaced by a pounding rhythmic
roll and crash, as of cymbals or the breakers on the shores of a far ocean.
The only light was starlight, but it illuminated everything with a cold clarity. Beneath him his mount
stretched and padded, its warm fur under his left hand, its feathers beneath his right.
“It’s a good ride, isn’t it?” The voice came from behind him, in his ears and in his mind.
Shadow turned, slowly, streaming images of himself as he moved, frozen moments, each him
captured in a fraction of a second, every tiny movement lasting for an infinite period. The images that
reached his mind made no sense: it was like seeing the world through the multifaceted jeweled eyes
of a dragonfly, but each facet saw something completely different, and he was unable to combine the
things he was seeing, or thought he was seeing, into a whole that made any sense.
He was looking at Mr. Nancy, an old black man with a pencil mustache, in his check sports jacket
and his lemon-yellow gloves, riding a carousel lion as it rose and lowered, high in the air; and, at the
same time, in the same place, he saw a jeweled spider as high as a horse, its eyes an emerald nebula,
strutting, staring down at him; and simultaneously he was looking at an extraordinarily tall man with
teak-colored skin and three sets of arms, wearing a flowing ostrich-feather headdress, his face
painted with red stripes, riding an irritated golden lion, two of his six hands holding on tightly to the
beast’s mane; and he was also seeing a young black boy, dressed in rags, his left foot all swollen and
crawling with blackflies; and last of all, and behind all these things, Shadow was looking at a tiny
brown spider, hiding under a withered ocher leaf.
Shadow saw all these things, and he knew they were the same thing.
“If you don’t close your mouth,” said the many things that were Mr. Nancy, “somethin’s goin’ to fly
in there.”
Shadow closed his mouth and swallowed, hard.
There was a wooden hall on a hill, a mile or so from them. They were trotting toward the hall, their
mounts’ hooves and feet padding noiselessly on the dry sand at the sea’s edge.
Czernobog trotted up on his centaur. He tapped the human arm of his mount. “None of this is truly
happening,” he said to Shadow
